feat: comment on threshold should be more alarming (#251)
coreruleset/documentation: content/2-how-crs-works/2-1-anomaly_scoring/index.md

Rule coverage should be taken into account when setting anomaly score thresholds. Different CRS rule categories feature different numbers of rules. SQL injection, for example, is covered by more than 50 rules. As a result, a real world SQLi attack can easily gain an anomaly score of 15, 20, or even more. On the other hand, a rare protocol attack might only be covered by a single, specific rule. If such an attack only causes the one specific rule to match then it will only gain an anomaly score of 5. If the inbound anomaly score threshold is set to anything higher than 5 then attacks like the one described will not be stopped. **As such, a CRS installation should aim for an inbound anomaly score threshold of 5.**

{{% notice warning %}}

> Increasing the anomaly score threshold will not only allow some attacks to bypass CRS; it will also disable a substantial portion of the most critical WAF protections. In particular, thresholds higher than 5 effectively neutralize many high-severity rules - including major LFI/RFI safeguards and several protections against severe data-exfiltration vulnerabilities -

Reviewer: You don't have to make references to specific attacks, it's pretty clear that raising the anomaly score threshold will lead to false negatives and bypass. It should be left at that. Being overly verbose will cause confusion as you'll be overloading the reader with information.

```suggestion
Increasing the anomaly score threshold will allow some attacks to bypass the CRS rules.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Increasing the anomaly score threshold above the defaults (5 for requests, 4 for responses) will allow a substantial amount of attacks to bypass CRS and hamper the ability of critical rules to function correctly. The anomaly score threshold should only ever be increased temporarily during false positive tuning.
```

If you apply this suggestion, then we can also remove the second paragraph.

> The sentence you propose gives the impression that it’s not a major issue - as if only “some” rules would be bypassed - which is completely disconnected from what happens in real-world environments

I used the word "some" here since many attacks do often score very highly with CRS (The average is about 20 anecdotally). How does "substantial" sound? it's more than "some"

Author: I think it’s important to name the rules that are sensitive to incorrect anomaly score thresholds so that the reader clearly understands what they are doing.

What do you think about this:

Increasing the anomaly score threshold above the defaults (5 for requests, 4 for responses) will allow a substantial number of attacks to bypass CRS and will impede the ability of critical rules to function correctly - including major LFI/RFI safeguards and several protections against severe data-exfiltration vulnerabilities. The anomaly score threshold should only ever be increased temporarily during false-positive tuning.

The blocking threshold should NEVER exceed 5, except temporarily during testing.

> The fact that major providers - such as Cloudflare in 2025 - set a default blocking level of 60 and consider 25 a "high" value is a security nonsense.

Reviewer: @touchweb-vincent You haven't addressed any of the issues I brought up in this comment. Please communicate why you didn't apply this instead of just ignoring my review. I can't approve this PR if you keep on ignoring me.

> The fact that major providers - such as Cloudflare in 2025 - set a default blocking level of 60 and consider 25 a "high" value is a security nonsense.

Author: Thanks for the follow-up. I’m not ignoring your review - let me address your points directly and explain why I did not apply your suggestion.

You wrote that:

“We should not name and shame every provider who implements CRS incorrectly.”

“It should already be clear that nobody should raise the anomaly score above 5.”

“This is something Cloudflare needs to fix, not us.”

I fully understand these positions.

However, the reason I believe Cloudflare must be mentioned explicitly is that these points are not clear at all to a large portion of real-world users.

In practice, Cloudflare’s default configuration shape the expectations of hundreds of thousands of organisations. When a large provider enforces a blocking threshold of 60 and labels 25 as “high”, users assume this is correct and safe - and they routinely disregard the CRS documentation because Cloudflare’s defaults contradict it.

This creates a major gap between what CRS is designed to do and how people believe it works.
We see this constantly in the field: companies genuinely think CRS is “too strict” or that auditors are “being paranoid”, simply because the most widely used WAF vendor diverges from CRS recommendations.

This is why I feel the documentation should explicitly point out when widely used platforms violate the CRS model.
Not to shame anyone - but to prevent misunderstandings and to protect users who rely on CRS in good faith.

If we don’t state this clearly, the situation simply won’t change, because users will continue to trust Cloudflare’s defaults more than the CRS documentation.

I’m absolutely open to reworking the wording so that it stays neutral and non-judgmental - but I believe mentioning Cloudflare directly is necessary for users to understand the discrepancy and its security implications.

Let’s find a formulation we can both agree on.

> The fact that major providers - such as Cloudflare in 2025 - set a default blocking level of 60 and consider 25 a "high" value is a security nonsense.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @EsadCetiner, the documentation should remain neutral. 

I think the first paragraph is enough and gives useful details.

> The fact that major providers - such as Cloudflare in 2025 - set a default blocking level of 60 and consider 25 a "high" value is a security nonsense.

Author: What do you think about this one:

Some WAF vendors (such as Cloudflare) set the default anomaly score well above our defaults - 5 to 12 times higher than what we recommend. This is not a proper implementation of CRS, and you will neutralize entire sections of the WAF.

---

Apart from RCEs/SQLi, which are very noisy from a rule-triggering perspective, XSS/SSRF and data-leak vectors are reliably detected at scores between 5 and 15.

Rule coverage should be taken into account when setting anomaly score thresholds. Different CRS rule categories feature different numbers of rules. SQL injection, for example, is covered by more than 50 rules. As a result, a real world SQLi attack can easily gain an anomaly score of 15, 20, or even more. On the other hand, a rare protocol attack might only be covered by a single, specific rule. If such an attack only causes the one specific rule to match then it will only gain an anomaly score of 5. If the inbound anomaly score threshold is set to anything higher than 5 then attacks like the one described will not be stopped. **As such, a CRS installation should aim for an inbound anomaly score threshold of 5.**

{{% notice warning %}}

> Increasing the thresholds will inevitably allow certain attacks to slip through, effectively bypassing CRS protections and weakening your overall security posture.

Author: I understand the intention behind your suggestion, but “some attacks” significantly downplays the real impact of increasing the anomaly score thresholds.

When raising these thresholds effectively disables more than half of the WAF rules, we’re not talking about a few isolated cases - it opens the door to a wide range of attacks that the CRS would normally block.

The purpose of this sentence is to make that risk explicit. Using a stronger phrasing such as “numerous attacks” or “a wide range of attacks” is both factually accurate and necessary to convey the severity of the change.

In short, “some” gives a misleading sense of limited risk, while the actual outcome is a major reduction in protection coverage.

> Increasing the thresholds will inevitably allow certain attacks to slip through, effectively bypassing CRS protections and weakening your overall security posture.

Reviewer: This is too wordy, grammatically incorrect and doesn't explicitly mention what threshold.
```suggestion
Increasing the anomaly score threshold will result in some attacks bypassing CRS, weakening your overall security posture.
```

Author: I rewrite the sentence accordingly.

> You should not set a blocking threshold higher than 10 - and ideally, you should do everything possible to block at 5.

Reviewer: I wouldn't recommend increasing the anomaly score at all, some attacks will only ever score 5 points (See SMTP/IMAP rules) even at higher paranoia levels, it's simpler to just stick with the default.

The only time this value should be raised is when false positive tuning, with the value being reduced gradually down to 5 as false positives are fixed.

Author: I'm aligned.

I edited this sentence : The blocking threshold should never exceed 5, except temporarily during testing.

If you don't, keep in mind that you will, at the very least, neutralize most of the LFI/RFI protection, including safeguards against severe data leakage vulnerabilities, which could likely cause you serious harm.

> The fact that some providers - such as Cloudflare in 2025 - set a default blocking level of 60 and consider 25 a "high" value is a security nonsense.

Reviewer: This should be brought up with Cloudflare specifically to adjust their recommended anomaly score, we can't mention every single provider that doesn't implement CRS correctly.
```suggestion
```

This is too much information and should be implied by the above text anyways.

> The fact that some providers - such as Cloudflare in 2025 - set a default blocking level of 60 and consider 25 a "high" value is a security nonsense.

Reviewer: We can't mention every issue with a CRS integrator, this is beyond our control and is a Cloudflare issue. Even if we did try to do something, you can't configure the anomaly score threshold to lower than 25 per their documentation: https://developers.cloudflare.com/waf/managed-rules/reference/owasp-core-ruleset/concepts/#score-threshold
```suggestion
```
